README.md, before:

# vis-timeline

![example chart](docs/img/timeline.png)

The Timeline/Graph2D is an interactive visualization chart to visualize data in time. The data items can take place on a single date, or have a start and end date (a range). You can freely move and zoom in the timeline by dragging and scrolling in the Timeline. Items can be created, edited, and deleted in the timeline. The time scale on the axis is adjusted automatically, and supports scales ranging from milliseconds to years.

## Badges

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/visjs/vis-timeline.svg)](https://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/visjs/vis-timeline.svg)](https://github.com/almende/vis/stargazers)

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/visjs/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) 

## Install

Install via npm:

    $ npm install vis-timeline

## Example

A basic example on loading a Timeline is shown below. More examples can be
found in the [examples directory](https://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline/tree/master/examples/)
of the project.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Timeline</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/standalone/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"></script>
  <link href="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/styles/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
    #visualization {
      width: 600px;
      height: 400px;
      border: 1px solid lightgray;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="visualization"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
  // DOM element where the Timeline will be attached
  var container = document.getElementById('visualization');

  // Create a DataSet (allows two way data-binding)
  var items = new vis.DataSet([
    {id: 1, content: 'item 1', start: '2014-04-20'},
    {id: 2, content: 'item 2', start: '2014-04-14'},
    {id: 3, content: 'item 3', start: '2014-04-18'},
    {id: 4, content: 'item 4', start: '2014-04-16', end: '2014-04-19'},
    {id: 5, content: 'item 5', start: '2014-04-25'},
    {id: 6, content: 'item 6', start: '2014-04-27', type: 'point'}
  ]);

  // Configuration for the Timeline
  var options = {};

  // Create a Timeline
  var timeline = new vis.Timeline(container, items, options);
</script>
</body>
</html>
```

## Builds

There are four builds provided at the moment.

### Standalone build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/standalone/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/standalone";
```

This has no dependencies and therefore is great for things like MWEs but has
more issues with interoperability and bundle bloat. For more information see the
following [example](https://visjs.github.io/vis-timeline/examples/timeline/standalone-build.html).

### Peer build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/peer/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/peer";
```

For this build to work you have to load Vis Data and Moment (including locales
except English) packages yourself. The advantage here is that it works well with
other packages. For more information see the following [example](https://visjs.github.io/vis-timeline/examples/timeline/peer-build.html).

### ESNext build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/esnext/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/esnext";
```

This is the same as the peer build but without any bundled dependencies or
pollyfills. It's indented to be used with bundlers like Rollup or Webpack which
will fetch the dependencies, prevent duplicate dependencies in the bundle, use
transpilers to add necessary polyfills etc.

### Legacy build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/dist/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline";
```

This is solely kept for backwards compatibility. It is deprecated and will be
removed in case of URLs and replaced by the peer build in case of
Node.js/bundlers. Don't use this, please.

## Build

To build the library from source, clone the project from github

    $ git clone git://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline.git

The source code uses the module style of node (require and module.exports) to
organize dependencies. To install all dependencies and build the library,
run `npm install` in the root of the project.

    $ cd vis-timeline
    $ npm install

Then, the project can be build running:

    $ npm run build

### Excluding external dependencies

External dependencies such as moment, hammerjs can be excluded in the build by running:

    $ npm run build -- -e [comma separated module names]

Example:

    $ npm run build -- -e moment,hammerjs

## Test

To test the library, install the project dependencies once:

    $ npm install

Then run the tests:

    $ npm run test

## Contribute

Contributions to the vis.js library are very welcome! We can't do this alone!

### Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏

<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

### Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>

## License

Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Almende B.V. and contributors
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 vis.js contributors

This work is dual-licensed under [Apache-2.0](./LICENSE.Apache-2.0.txt) and [MIT](./LICENSE.MIT.txt).
You can choose between one of them if you use this work.

`SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT`

Commit message:

docs: update package name to publish fork

README.md, after:

# vis-timeline (Fork)


> [!IMPORTANT]
> This is a fork of the library vis-timeline with minor fixes and improvements. The original library can be found [here](https://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline).

![example chart](docs/img/timeline.png)

The Timeline/Graph2D is an interactive visualization chart to visualize data in time. The data items can take place on a single date, or have a start and end date (a range). You can freely move and zoom in the timeline by dragging and scrolling in the Timeline. Items can be created, edited, and deleted in the timeline. The time scale on the axis is adjusted automatically, and supports scales ranging from milliseconds to years.

## Badges

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/visjs/vis-timeline.svg)](https://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline/graphs/contributors)
[![GitHub stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/visjs/vis-timeline.svg)](https://github.com/almende/vis/stargazers)

[![Backers on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/visjs/backers/badge.svg)](#backers) [![Sponsors on Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsors/badge.svg)](#sponsors) 

## Install

Install via npm:

    $ npm install vis-timeline

## Example

A basic example on loading a Timeline is shown below. More examples can be
found in the [examples directory](https://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline/tree/master/examples/)
of the project.

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
<head>
  <title>Timeline</title>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/standalone/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"></script>
  <link href="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/styles/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
    #visualization {
      width: 600px;
      height: 400px;
      border: 1px solid lightgray;
    }
  </style>
</head>
<body>
<div id="visualization"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
  // DOM element where the Timeline will be attached
  var container = document.getElementById('visualization');

  // Create a DataSet (allows two way data-binding)
  var items = new vis.DataSet([
    {id: 1, content: 'item 1', start: '2014-04-20'},
    {id: 2, content: 'item 2', start: '2014-04-14'},
    {id: 3, content: 'item 3', start: '2014-04-18'},
    {id: 4, content: 'item 4', start: '2014-04-16', end: '2014-04-19'},
    {id: 5, content: 'item 5', start: '2014-04-25'},
    {id: 6, content: 'item 6', start: '2014-04-27', type: 'point'}
  ]);

  // Configuration for the Timeline
  var options = {};

  // Create a Timeline
  var timeline = new vis.Timeline(container, items, options);
</script>
</body>
</html>
```

## Builds

There are four builds provided at the moment.

### Standalone build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/standalone/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/standalone";
```

This has no dependencies and therefore is great for things like MWEs but has
more issues with interoperability and bundle bloat. For more information see the
following [example](https://visjs.github.io/vis-timeline/examples/timeline/standalone-build.html).

### Peer build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/peer/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/peer";
```

For this build to work you have to load Vis Data and Moment (including locales
except English) packages yourself. The advantage here is that it works well with
other packages. For more information see the following [example](https://visjs.github.io/vis-timeline/examples/timeline/peer-build.html).

### ESNext build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/esnext/umd/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline/esnext";
```

This is the same as the peer build but without any bundled dependencies or
pollyfills. It's indented to be used with bundlers like Rollup or Webpack which
will fetch the dependencies, prevent duplicate dependencies in the bundle, use
transpilers to add necessary polyfills etc.

### Legacy build

```html
<script
  type="text/javascript"
  src="https://unpkg.com/vis-timeline@latest/dist/vis-timeline-graph2d.min.js"
></script>
```

```javascript
import { Timeline } from "vis-timeline";
```

This is solely kept for backwards compatibility. It is deprecated and will be
removed in case of URLs and replaced by the peer build in case of
Node.js/bundlers. Don't use this, please.

## Build

To build the library from source, clone the project from github

    $ git clone git://github.com/visjs/vis-timeline.git

The source code uses the module style of node (require and module.exports) to
organize dependencies. To install all dependencies and build the library,
run `npm install` in the root of the project.

    $ cd vis-timeline
    $ npm install

Then, the project can be build running:

    $ npm run build

### Excluding external dependencies

External dependencies such as moment, hammerjs can be excluded in the build by running:

    $ npm run build -- -e [comma separated module names]

Example:

    $ npm run build -- -e moment,hammerjs

## Test

To test the library, install the project dependencies once:

    $ npm install

Then run the tests:

    $ npm run test

## Contribute

Contributions to the vis.js library are very welcome! We can't do this alone!

### Backers

Thank you to all our backers! 🙏

<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs#backers" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/backers.svg?width=890"></a>

### Sponsors

Support this project by becoming a sponsor. Your logo will show up here with a link to your website.

<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/0/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/0/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/1/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/1/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/2/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/2/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/3/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/3/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/4/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/4/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/5/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/5/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/6/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/6/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/7/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/7/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/8/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/8/avatar.svg"></a>
<a href="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/9/website" target="_blank"><img src="https://opencollective.com/visjs/sponsor/9/avatar.svg"></a>

## License

Copyright (c) 2014-2017 Almende B.V. and contributors
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 vis.js contributors

This work is dual-licensed under [Apache-2.0](./LICENSE.Apache-2.0.txt) and [MIT](./LICENSE.MIT.txt).
You can choose between one of them if you use this work.

`SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 OR MIT`
